Formed to approximately 4.56 billion years and considered the center of our solar system, the Sun is the largest star we have, being indispensable for life on Earth by providing the proper temperature for the existence of life and being fundamental for the biological processes that take place in it. Featuring about 99.8% of the mass of the solar system and an absolutely high temperature of 5.785K (Kelvin), this incandescent giant has a mass 332,900 times higher than our planet, having a gravity of 274.13 m / s² .

The Sun is composed mostly of:
 
Hydrogen - 73.46%
Helium - 24.85%
Oxygen - 0.77%
Carbon - 0.29%
Iron - 0.16%
Sulfur - 0.12%
Neon - 0.13%
Nitrogen - 0.09%
Silicon - 0.07%

The structure of the Sun is composed of:

Nucleus - Where the energy of the Sun is generated.

Radioactive zone - Intermediate layer between the Nucleus and the convective zone.

Convective Zone - It is located between the Radioactive Zone and the Photosphere.

Fotosphere - It is the Solar surface, and it emits the sunlight that is visible to us.

Chromosphere - Layer of the Sun that together with the Photosphere and the White Crown constitutes the solar atmosphere.

White Crown - Also called the Solar Crown or Fraunhofer Crown in honor of the German optician Joseph von Fraunhofer, it is a type of light coating that is usually seen during solar eclipses.

Sunspots - Regions that have a lower temperature in comparison to the other regions of the Sun, this low temperature conofere a look similar to a dark spot.

Solar Prominences - Commonly seen in images of our incandescent star, Solar Prominences are structures similar to arcs of fire that generally protrude from the solar surface.

Curiosities:

The Sun had had a supposed twin sister named Nemesis, who supposedly had directed Earth to the asteroid that extinguished the dinosaurs.

Many people regarded the Sun as a divine entity, such as the Egyptians who called it Ra, the Greeks who called it Helium, and the Aztecs who called it Huitzilopochtli and Tonatiuh.

It is believed that the end of our and other planets in the solar system is related to its expansion.

Light from the Sun takes 8 minutes to reach Earth.