In eukaryotic cells, the cytoplasm is a space between the nucleus and the plasma membrane, consisting of a viscous liquid called cytosol or hyaloplasm, which in turn is formed by dissolved ions, minerals and substances indispensable to organic synthesis. In prokaryotic cells, in addition to being where all the genetic material is spread, it is all the content in which the plasma membrane delimits. The cytoplasm can be divided into two parts, one called ectoplasm that is located in an outer part of the cell and another called endoplasm that is located in an inner part.

It is in the cytoplasm, more specifically in the cytosol, that the following organelles are immersed: the mitochondria, the smooth and rough endoplasmic reticulum, the ribosomes, the lysosomes, the peroxisomes, the vacuoles and the golgiense complex. The cytosol is formed by two phases, one represented by water and another represented by proteins that form particles called micelles. The micelles cause the cytosol to be found in two other phases: the gel phase and the sol phase. The cytosol is shown in the gel phase when the micelles are tightly joined, causing it to become viscous.

The cytosol is shown in the sol phase when the micelles are spaced from each other, causing it to take on a liquid appearance. In the cytoplasm there is a structure made up of microfilaments, intermediate filaments and microtubules called the cytoskeleton, which functions as the "skeleton" of the cell, providing it with support and movement. Among the movements that the cytoskeleton confers the cell, is the cytosis that is a rapid movement of the cytoplasm for the repositioning of organelles.

Much of the cytoplasm is composed of water and also by organic macromolecules such as proteins and enzymes, also presenting in its composition polysaccharides and lipids. In animal cells, the cytoplasm occupies a significant part of its volume, in which occurs the various chemical reactions such as glycolysis and protein synthesis in which some molecules are synthesized and degraded. If compared to the animal cell, the cytoplasm of the plant cell is smaller, because the vacuole occupies much of it. It is in the cytoplasm that activities that are indispensable for cell life such as protein synthesis, cellular respiration and storage of substances occur. It is also responsible for giving the cell its format.