The cell wall is a structure present in all plant cells, also found in fungi, algae, prokaryotes (less in microplasm) and protozoa. This structure is not found in animal cells. The cell wall is responsible for providing cell resistance, which prevents swelling of the cell caused by the excessive ingress of water, which can lead to cell disruption. The cell wall is also responsible for the shape of the cell, the support and its elasticity.

The cell wall is composed primarily of cellulose, which in turn consists of glucose monomers that are arranged in microfibrils that coil together to form a similar shape with wires wound to a tube. The cell wall is synthesized by the golgiense complex, it secretes some carbohydrates such as cellulose, pectin and hemicellulose that bind to filaments of the cytoskeleton and originate the primary cell wall. The primary wall is located in a more external area of ​​the cell and although it is thin, it is flexible and resistant, which enables cell growth.

After the formation of the primary wall, the secondary wall is formed which consists primarily of hemicellulose and cellulose. It is not present in all plant organisms, and besides being more rigid than the primary wall, it may contain lignin and suberin which is the substance that gives it its rigidity. In addition to the primary and secondary cell wall, the cell wall also has the middle lamella, which is responsible for binding the cell to neighboring cells. Organisms such as algae, plants, bacteria and fungi also have cell walls.

Following are the following from each of them: Bacteria - The cell wall of bacteria are formed primarily from peptidoglycans, and can be specified in Gram-negative and Gram-positive. Fungi - The cell wall of fungi is composed of chitin, with the possibility of presenting cellulose, and also protects them from invaders. Algae - The cell wall of algae consists of several types of cellulose, and also by polysaccharides. Plants - Generally possessing a primary cell wall and a secondary cell wall, the cell wall of plants is composed primarily of cellulose microfibrils.